README.md, before:

# Kubernetes_pipeline

Current stage of the repository is to migrate to using Helm Charts instead of individual manifests.

The /charts directory contains charts for each pipeline step.

Each Chart has the necessary manifests in the /templates directory and when installing the chart, the templates take values from the values.yaml file.

## Creating a chart
There is a chart inside the /charts directory called step_starter. This chart is a template chart, which means it can be used as a base chart to create new charts that will have some common resources.

Run `helm create --starter /absolute/path/to/step_starter chart_name` to create a new chart.

## Installing a chart
First create a release `helm package path/to/chart`
Run `helm upgrade --install release-name path/to/chart.gz`
You are encouraged to create a values.override.yaml file that you can fill with custom values, overriding the defaults of the chart's values.yaml.
To install the chart with custom values run `helm upgrade --install -f path/to/values.override.yaml release-name path/to/chart.gz`

## Best practices
- Do not use local packages. Instead, add the remote [repo](https://alercebroker.github.io/kubernetes_pipeline/) with all the charts available and install from there.
  
  Once Helm has been set up correctly, add the repo as follows:

      helm repo add <alias> https://alercebroker.github.io/kubernetes_pipeline

  If you had already added this repo earlier, run `helm repo update` to retrieve
  the latest versions of the packages.  You can then run `helm search repo <alias>` to see the charts.

  To install the <chart-name> chart:

      helm install <release-name> <alias>/<chart-name>

  To uninstall the chart:

      helm delete <release-name>

## About the pipeline

### Pipeline topology (simplified)

![Image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20263599/228923692-27d46532-955f-4f8c-9cfe-94489300fb59.png)

### Steps explanation

 - [Sorting Hat](https://github.com/alercebroker/sorting_hat_step): Assigns an ALeRCE ID (aid) to the alerts received by it. This step performs a crossmatch to check if the alerted object must be assigned to a previously created `aid` or need to create a new `aid` that will contain this alert.
 - [Previous Candidates (prv_candidates)](https://github.com/alercebroker/prv_candidates_step): Decodes the `extra_fields` (only in ZTF alerts for now) and obtains the previous candidates in the alert. Returns an AVRO package with 3 fields: the `aid`, a list of *detections* and a list of *non_detections*. 
 - [Stamp Classifier](https://github.com/alercebroker/stamp_classifier_step): Uses the `stamp_classifier` algorithm to classify images into different astronomical objects. 
 - [Magstats](https://github.com/alercebroker/magstats_step): Calculates some important statistics of the object.
 - [Lightcurve](https://github.com/alercebroker/lightcurve-step): Retrieves the full lightcurve of a given object.
 - [Xmatch](https://github.com/alercebroker/xmatch_step): Performs a crossmatch using the ALLWISE catalog.
 - [Features](https://github.com/alercebroker/feature_step): Obtain the features of a given lightcurve, using FeatureExtractors.
 - [LC Classifier](https://github.com/alercebroker/lc_classification_step): Perform a inference given a set of features. This might not get a classification if the object lacks of certain features.

Other steps that aren't part of the alert processing pipeline

 - [S3](https://github.com/alercebroker/s3_step): Upload the AVRO files in a AWS S3 Bucket. 
 - [Watchlist](https://github.com/alercebroker/watchlist_step): Receives alerts and perform crossmatch to check if there are objects on a watchlist created by an user. If there is, then the user is notified.
 - [Scribe](https://github.com/alercebroker/alerce-scribe): CQRS Step which allows other steps to perform asyncronous write database operations.

### Glossary

 - Alert: Incoming detection from a given survey
 - Survey: Specific observational project that generates alerts based on changes in the sky. Note that they can use one or more telescopes
 - Object: A collection of spatially close detections (as defined by ALeRCE), assumed to be from the same source
 - Detection: Alert stored in the database for which a significant flux change with respect to its template image can be detected
 - Non Detection: Observations included in the stream in which no significant flux change was detected. These never come as alerts and are only present in ZTF as part of an alert previous candidates

More details in the PIPELINE.md file

Commit message:

Added correction step to readme

README.md, after:

# Kubernetes_pipeline

Current stage of the repository is to migrate to using Helm Charts instead of individual manifests.

The /charts directory contains charts for each pipeline step.

Each Chart has the necessary manifests in the /templates directory and when installing the chart, the templates take values from the values.yaml file.

## Creating a chart
There is a chart inside the /charts directory called step_starter. This chart is a template chart, which means it can be used as a base chart to create new charts that will have some common resources.

Run `helm create --starter /absolute/path/to/step_starter chart_name` to create a new chart.

## Installing a chart
First create a release `helm package path/to/chart`
Run `helm upgrade --install release-name path/to/chart.gz`
You are encouraged to create a values.override.yaml file that you can fill with custom values, overriding the defaults of the chart's values.yaml.
To install the chart with custom values run `helm upgrade --install -f path/to/values.override.yaml release-name path/to/chart.gz`

## Best practices
- Do not use local packages. Instead, add the remote [repo](https://alercebroker.github.io/kubernetes_pipeline/) with all the charts available and install from there.
  
  Once Helm has been set up correctly, add the repo as follows:

      helm repo add <alias> https://alercebroker.github.io/kubernetes_pipeline

  If you had already added this repo earlier, run `helm repo update` to retrieve
  the latest versions of the packages.  You can then run `helm search repo <alias>` to see the charts.

  To install the <chart-name> chart:

      helm install <release-name> <alias>/<chart-name>

  To uninstall the chart:

      helm delete <release-name>

## About the pipeline

### Pipeline topology (simplified)

![Image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20263599/228923692-27d46532-955f-4f8c-9cfe-94489300fb59.png)

### Steps explanation

 - [Sorting Hat](https://github.com/alercebroker/sorting_hat_step): Assigns an ALeRCE ID (aid) to the alerts received by it. This step performs a crossmatch to check if the alerted object must be assigned to a previously created `aid` or need to create a new `aid` that will contain this alert.
 - [Previous Candidates](https://github.com/alercebroker/prv_candidates_step): Decodes the `extra_fields` (only in ZTF alerts for now) and obtains the previous candidates in the alert. Returns an AVRO package with 3 fields: the `aid`, a list of *detections* and a list of *non_detections*. 
 - [Stamp Classifier](https://github.com/alercebroker/stamp_classifier_step): Uses the `stamp_classifier` algorithm to classify images into different astronomical objects.
 - [Lightcurve](https://github.com/alercebroker/lightcurve-step): Retrieves the full lightcurve of a given object.
 - [Correction](https://github.com/alercebroker/correction_step): Applies correction to pass from difference to apparent magnitude.
 - [Magstats](https://github.com/alercebroker/magstats_step): Calculates some important statistics of the object.
 - [Xmatch](https://github.com/alercebroker/xmatch_step): Performs a crossmatch using the ALLWISE catalog.
 - [Features](https://github.com/alercebroker/feature_step): Obtain the features of a given lightcurve, using FeatureExtractors.
 - [LC Classifier](https://github.com/alercebroker/lc_classification_step): Perform a inference given a set of features. This might not get a classification if the object lacks of certain features.

Other steps that aren't part of the alert processing pipeline

 - [S3](https://github.com/alercebroker/s3_step): Upload the AVRO files in a AWS S3 Bucket. 
 - [Watchlist](https://github.com/alercebroker/watchlist_step): Receives alerts and perform crossmatch to check if there are objects on a watchlist created by an user. If there is, then the user is notified.
 - [Scribe](https://github.com/alercebroker/alerce-scribe): CQRS Step which allows other steps to perform asyncronous write database operations.

### Glossary

 - Alert: Incoming detection from a given survey
 - Survey: Specific observational project that generates alerts based on changes in the sky. Note that they can use one or more telescopes
 - Object: A collection of spatially close detections (as defined by ALeRCE), assumed to be from the same source
 - Detection: Alert stored in the database for which a significant flux change with respect to its template image can be detected
 - Non Detection: Observations included in the stream in which no significant flux change was detected. These never come as alerts and are only present in ZTF as part of an alert previous candidates

More details in the PIPELINE.md file
